include all of the key core staff? Well, core
block, they go out and then they have elections to
see who and their friends vote. to see who gets an
interview. The people in their class vote, and the
top three vote getters go to an interview process.
And inside the interview process, then they
interview with people such as core staff, stuff
like that. So in the interview process, there are
the key people within the Corps Commander, Deputy
Corps Commander, someone's from Parcel Mountain
Cavalry, someone's from Ross Volunteers, stuff
like that. So I'm in the band. Did it cost in that
campaign for your senior yell leader, did that
cost some money? It cost money both years. Where'd
you raise the money? Credit cards and my parents.
So you didn't raise money from other people? No, I
did not. What would be the guesstimate of what? A
lot. $1,000? More. My junior year, probably five.
Really? Yeah, but that's taking into account
everything. That's taking into account cell
phone bills, gas, I mean food for the people who
helped out, the gifts that I got them when it was all
done for helping out, stuff like that. It was less
my senior year just because I didn't have to work as
hard my senior year. I already had name
recognition. I already had all that kind of stuff.
In the campaign, the two years, is there anything
you did that if you were doing it now you wouldn't
do? Anything that you realize was an error in
judgment or ethics? No, there really is not. Maybe
something I'd do different is when I'd go speak, I
would say a lot more than what I did, especially my
senior year. Sometimes I wanted to play PC too
much. Does that make sense? I didn't want to offend
anyone, so I'd keep some of the stuff that I wanted
to say just to myself just because that's fine.
Looking back on it, I kind of wish I would have said
some stuff that would have maybe alleviated some
problems that we've had. Did you keep the bright,
the special green color? No, actually we didn't.
We changed it and the campaign kind of took on a
different, kind of different feel to it that year.
Completely new people helped out. It was a new
group of people. And that year was all about, it was
so funny, it's almost like we started an
organization. And we called it Random Steps.
Because everyone that helped out was all about
people opening up amongst themselves, not trying
to become new people. Does that make sense? Like
take steps personally. And so, I mean, everything
from taking random trips to Austin on a Tuesday
night when we shouldn't have. um to just anything
and so what we ended up doing was uh that kind of
became what it was and it became like best friends
like they're probably two marriages are coming
out of it out of the people and they didn't know each
other before the before the campaign started and
now two people will probably end up getting
married um out of that best friendships roommates
A bunch of stuff. So you had no opponent? Well, we
had opponents, but not from the Corps. Not from the
Corps cadets. And your margin of victory was?
Bubba and I, the guy that I reigned with, we set
records for the most votes that anyone has ever
gotten at A&M. Was he a civilian or a Corps? No, he
was Corps. He got 40 more votes than I did, and...
We, he got 8,000 and I got right under 8,000. And
that is, we beat, the next closest person got
2,000. So the margin of victory was substantial.
And of the five elected, were you the only
civilian? Once again, I was the only civilian. And
then you go before the? Go before the board and
interview. And that board was there much
difference in the background of the interview
board in terms of core civilian or whatever? It was
all over. I mean it was appointed by the student
body president and so there were people from all
over. A true variety. It was a true variety. It sure
was. Did anybody either during the campaign or
during the interview process come to you and try to
get you to promise to do this, that or the other? Not
really. Honestly, I mean, just because if you look
at what yell leaders do, there's not a lot that we
could promise. They could be like, promise to do
more yells, and we'll be like, okay, we'll do more
yells. You know, I mean, there's not, there's
really nothing, not really. Nobody asks you to
come to the fraternity and sorority houses more or
do this and Duncan more or anything. No. And...
then how did you learn you had been selected as the
head yell leader? We go through the interview
process, and the three senior yell leaders who got
interviewed, we would go up to Dr. Sutherland's
office, and Dr. Sutherland would tell us who got
it. All three at the same time? All three at the same
time, and Rusty Thompson, who was our advisor, all
four of us would be up there, and then Dr.
Sutherland would tell us. And it was weird, just
because I never, I mean, no civilian has ever been a
head yell leader before. When you went in to that
meeting, You knew that the announcement was going
to occur then? Yeah. What were your thoughts? My
thoughts were, don't worry about it. It's not a big
deal. You're going to have fun next year. Think
about all the extra time you're going to have. Just
because a junior yell leader is much more time
consuming than just a regular senior yell leader.
A head yell leader's time is much more, a lot more
time consuming than just a junior yell leader.
But, so I was just like, man, I was trying to be
positive. I was just like, just because I knew, I
was like there's no way that they're going to give a
non-reg head yell leader. It's just not going to
happen. Did he say anything unusual in making the
announcement? When he first started, about five
minutes into his talk, I was like, I think I started
Yell Leader. Just because what he was talking on.
He was talking on changes within the Yell Leader
organization and how they dealt with that and how
when changes happened that it turned out to be some
of the strongest years of Yell Leaders when the
changes happened. So when that happened, when he
said that, I was just like, wow, something
happened. All right, so the announcement is made,
and then did anyone then pull you aside in any
manner and give you advice, guidance, counsel?
Not really, to be honest with you. I think they were
very upset that I won, they being the core yell
leaders. They were upset that I won. Were they
outwardly pleasant? No, not at first, not the
first week, not the first two weeks. They weren't
at all. Last year's head yell leader didn't talk to
me for about two weeks, wouldn't return my phone
calls. Really? And then when we actually sat down
and talked, he was very visibly upset and even
angry at times.
for weird reasons, and it worked out fine. I mean,
everything, in the end, everything's fine. But I
remember being upset about that. I mean, I was hurt
by that. But. All right, then, as you go back, you go
out of that first, that announcement, what were
your guidelines that you personally adopted? Oh,
man.
never judge before i never judge never make a
preconceived notion before you know everything
were you determined to be non-prejudicial to the
corps and the corps members um i was determined to
be completely fair i was determined to be
completely fair um in my opinion no one deserved
more than someone else until they proved to me that
they deserved more than anyone else Until someone
shows me that they're capable of more, I'm not
going to give them more. And were you determined
that in doing anything with the Corps that you were
not going to say, okay, buddies, I'll show you
guys? Oh, of course not. No, I think that's one of
the reasons why I might have gotten it. It's
because that was never an issue. I did my job as my
job was prescribed to me, not how I thought the job
should be run. All right, so then last summer,
what? Last summer was first jail. I mean, I ate and
braved that thing simply because Bill Cosby was
the entertainer. That's a whole lot of money Bill
Cosby cost. And so that was amazing, just having to
put that together. And throughout that time, my
girlfriend and I had broken up. And so personally,
that was a really rough time just because we were
going through all that. Instead of breaking up
with my girlfriend and really kind of
re-evaluating who I was, re-evaluating my
relationship with Christ, re-evaluating all
that, I kind of went the other way and started
having fun, per se, which I kind of regret now. But
it was good to do it, I guess, just because I learned
a lot. Was part of the problem of the breakup the
stress of the activities, you reckon? Sort of,
possibly. Because it was right before
campaigning started. And I was just, the whole
stress of everything, I just started to wonder if I
wanted to even do it anymore.
everything was like that like do I want to be a
theater arts major like I started questioning
everything so it was just kind of this I need to find
myself I need to find who I am so you were you here all
summer I was here all summer where'd you live I
lived in a house over off 2818 and then when the fall
semester began you moved to the campus yes back to
Hart Hall Hart Hall I lived in Hart Hall in the fall.
What was it like to live in Hart Hall? It was great,
man. It was so neat just because I always got the
weird look. I always got the strange look. I always
got the what you live where. I'm really into the
strange looks that I get from people. Like, I'm a
theater arts major, so I'm liberal arts, so I need
to take a language. I'm taking ancient Greek as my
language. Exactly. I love that look. I love the
look of people going... I don't know necessarily
why I do, but I just... I don't know. It's not that I
love being different, per se, because I don't try
to be different, but I loved living in Hart, and I
love the stuff that I got living in Hart. I love
getting made fun of it. Because it's on
air-conditioned. Because it's on
air-conditioned, because my rooms weren't this
big. Everybody opens their window, so the wind
was... You do know that long years ago, that was the
athletic dorm. Oh, yeah. I remember. I sure do.
Then classes began and first yell. Classes began,
first yell. Did you get to meet Bill Cosby? I did.
Actually, I got to meet Bill Cosby. What was your
impression? Describe Bill. Bill Cosby is the
ultimate entertainer. He is the entertainer.
It's amazing. Sitting in the room, like when I was
in there and Rusty Thompson, our advisor, would be
in there and he'd be signing stuff for us. He'd just
kind of be there. I mean, he'd be talking a little
bit, but he would be talking very much like you and I
are talking right now. Not a big deal. But then
someone would come in, like he's real big into
helping mentally challenged people and stuff
like that. Real, like he's really heavily
involved in that. And so some of the, some, there
was a girl who loves Bill Cosby who is mentally
challenged here in the Bryant College Station
area. And she came into the room. And right when she
came into the room, I mean the switch went on. And he
was Dr. Huxtable. I mean he was Bill Cosby that you
hear on radio, that you see on TV. And she left, and
he was just, I mean, just sat down. He was just very
tired looking. I mean, the man's 70 years old. And
he did not, in his presentation, did not do or even
hint at a thing that was inappropriate. Never was.
That was in bad taste or anything. That's what I
thought. Never was. And that's another thing, is
right beforehand, he was so tired. But then he hit
the, I mean, it was just, oh, man, just on. I mean,
right when he walked out that curtain, it was on.
Then right when he got off stage... Was he
courteous to everyone? Very courteous. Oh, he
took every picture that anyone wanted to take. He
signed everything that anyone wanted to sign. All
that stuff. It was great. So, all right, as head
yell leader, what were some of the high points and
low points, if there were any for you? Some of the
high points were just getting to be involved with
what I got to be involved in. Something that I've
learned throughout my time as head yell leader is
that I love to be on the in. Does that make sense? To
be what? And on the in, be the one that someone calls
if they need something. On the in, I-N. Yeah, be on
the in, I guess you could say. Being on a first name
basis with Dr. Sutherland. You know, the fact that
every time I see him, he makes fun of me. You know,
that type of stuff. I enjoy that. I do. And so that
was a really neat thing. High point for just as far
as Yale leader goes, seeing First Yale happen. and
that getting done, and realizing that it was a
success, not only that it worked, but also
financially, we made a lot of money. As far as you
know, it's continuing. And it's continuing. And I
think that that's, and it's really, it's a really
neat thing to know that we were in on the beginning
of that, those five of us, that sat in that room and
said, okay, if we're going to do this, then we need
to do it. And then seeing it happen. Any low
moments? Disappointments?
Times, yeah. I mean, just problems with
friendships again. I mean, I was even busier this
semester, this past fall, than I was this semester
before. So a lot of friendships were fading. There
was times in which I didn't like my living
situation. The guy I was living with was a
sophomore. I was having problems with other
friends. I wasn't with my girlfriend, obviously.
I got myself into some situations with girls that
were bad. Not anything serious or anything, but
just... If I had it all over again, I wouldn't do it
simply because of just the emotion that had to be
put forth to appease the situation. So that wasn't
good. Now, through all of these stressful times,
sometimes stressful times, to whom did you turn
for advice, for counseling?
Different people, honestly. The person that
first came to my mind was my girlfriend, Kate. Even
when we weren't together, if I was having a bad
time, I'd call her. And she'd always listen.
Another one is Dr. Welch, Ben Welch, who was the
advisor to the Aggie Men's Club. We eat breakfast
every Thursday morning at 7 o'clock in the
morning. He and whoever else wants to come, but
it's usually just me and him. And that is, that's
just, he's just an amazing sounding board. What
about academic advice? What to take or what not to
take? Just my fellow students, my fellow theater
art students, really. Now, you and your friends
register on the machine. It's on the phone. On the
phone, okay. And how long does that take? Oh my
gosh, my freshman year it took until about 2.15 in
the morning. Now it doesn't take that long just
because I'm older. You know the routine. I know the
routine a little better. How do you avoid taking
the wrong course? Gas, man. Like really what it is
is you sign up for stuff and then you realize what
you're in and then you go talk to an advisor. I talk
to my advisors a lot, see what courses I need, see
what I don't.
Do you have a long-range career goal yet? I've got a
pretty good idea of some. What is it? I would
like... I don't know, to be honest with you. I know
that I like the arts. I enjoy acting. I love being on
stage. I love that type of stuff. I love building
sets, and I love that. But then I also love... I got
to go to the inauguration this year for George W. I
love that. I love politics. I love... I love having
a cause and defending it. I'm not saying that
politics is something that I'm going to be in, but
it very well could be. Politics is something that
I'm in. And your major today is? Theater arts.
Theater arts. And I have a minor in business. And
you're graduating when? Next May. And... What am I
going to do? What are you going to do? Oh, gosh. I
have no idea. My parents have a lot of contacts in
Washington right now simply because of who's
there. I could go get a job in Washington. They've
already told me that, that I could go get work in
Washington for a while, maybe even in the White
House. I agree. Stuff I thought about. As you look
at this campus today, how are the co-eds treated?
Very well, I think. Are they, you think, given
equality? I believe so. I believe so. If you go over
to student government and if you go to the MSC and if
you go to stuff like that, women are doing just as
much as men are and sometimes even more. If you look
at Fish Camp, the organization of Fish Camp, there
are always, always a majority of people that help
out women. and that's very, that's looked well
upon. If you look at administrators, yes, top
administrators are still males, simply because
of, and this is nothing against y'all, simply
because of the age in which the males are, simply
because the administrators are now 50s, 60s. Most
women who are in 50 and 60 didn't get the education
to support that. But I say in the next 20 years, a
majority of the, I wouldn't say majority, but I'd
say a very equal part of the administrators on this
campus will be women. I mean, just like Dr.
Winterford, Cindy Lawson, people like that.
There are people in key positions on campus that
make big time decisions. And so I think that it's
coming around. Probably slower here than other
places, but I think it's coming around. What about
minorities? Minorities, it's a funny thing.
Minorities aren't, it's different here than
other places. I think it's open to them, but the
minority has to be very open as well. Does that make
sense? The minority person can't come in here with
a chip on the shoulder because a chip is just going
to be given right back to them. But someone who is
open, like Boo-Boo, like a Ronnie McDonald, like
my friend Sko Maps, he's African-American.
If they're open, then there's nothing that's
going to be done. What about Asian? Asian, I have
another friend who was just an exec on a... And a
student organization, big MSC hospitality, very
big student organization, he could probably do
anything he wanted in student government. I think
that it's relatively open. But I think a big part of
it is, and this stinks, but it's on their part. And
what they are, are they going to subscribe to the
same things that we hold dear? Because if they try
and come and change the system, then obviously we
aren't, we wouldn't have that even if a, I mean if a
Caucasian came in and did that. make believe that I
didn't know anything about the student body in
general here. Geographically, where do Aggie
undergraduates come from? Texas. Big towns,
small towns? I think it's half and half. Now,
honestly, a lot of people come from the cities. A
lot of people come from Houston, Austin, Dallas. A
lot of people. Are there still small towners?
They're very small towners. in terms of attitudes
a liberal conservative conservative very
conservative but it's getting more liberal it's
funny um i would say more liberal conservatism if
that's if that's said um just because a lot of
people they aren't die hard right-wing
conservatives yet at the same time they aren't i
think that's i think that's the biggest thing is
that they're actually In my opinion, we have a much
more open-minded campus than people would like to
think. Maybe I'm just optimistic. As you have now
finished four years, who are the people in key
positions here that you most respect? I'm not
going to ask the negative. That I most respect? I
respect Cindy Lawson. Now, how do you know her?
Through the bonfire stuff, and then just in the
position that I've held these past couple years. I
respect Winn Rosser, who works in the vice
president's office for student affairs. What's
his task? His task is pretty much to go wherever Dr.
Sutherland goes and follow him around. But the
thing about Dr. Rosser is that he never misses
anything. He's kind of a chief of staff. Yeah. He
doesn't miss a thing. Does not miss a thing. And
it's really neat to see that. I respect Rusty
Thompson, who is our advisor. Rusty has probably
been much more than just an advisor. I mean, Rusty
and I are gonna be close. Maybe it's just simply
because of the stuff that we had to go through. But
Rusty and I will be close probably for the rest of
his life, at least I'd like to think so. I mean,
there's more, but those are the ones that stick
out. Mm-hm, mm-hm. If you were giving advice to the
Head Yale leaders of the future, what advice would
you give them? of yourself because you were put in
the position by your friends. There's nothing
that you did necessarily that put you in the
position. There's everything that everyone else
did. Be humble just because you don't deserve it
necessarily. You were put there for a purpose. Be
open-minded at all times. Don't think that just
because that's how it was done in the past means
that that's the right way to do it. before you make a
decision, remove yourself from the situation,
then think about what would be best for the student
body as a whole, not just for the organization. If
you had complete authority to make any changes in
what we do in terms of athletic events and so forth,
is there anything you would change? Any yells you
would discontinue? Any songs you would modify or
terminate?
I can't think of any. I'm very happy with how stuff
goes right now. If I could change anything, it'd be
that we have a better basketball team. I mean, I
would change certain things about the athletic
teams themselves, but nothing. Nothing about the
way in which we, as Aggies, support our teams. See,
if I had dictator authority, and my notes don't go
in the final version, of course, if I were the
dictator, we would sing the other verse of the war
hymn. That's a really funny thing that comes up.
That's a funny talk because, I don't know, we get
asked that a lot, about why don't we sing the first
verse. And it's actually not the first verse. It's
actually the second verse. Yeah, yeah. Yes, I
mean, I don't think that would be a horrible thing
to do. See, like when I was chancellor at Missouri
and NM came up there and played, and this would have
been 89 or 90.
And here, playing at Missouri, you don't beat the
hell out of... and goodbye to Texas University and
the Missouri Crown was saying, gee, you know,
these people are superb, but why are they singing
that here? Well, it's just, I mean, what I tell
people is we aren't seeing that thinking of Texas
necessarily. I know it, yeah. You don't think of
Texas necessarily. Maybe the first verse, I think
that's something that might come up later. I
remember a couple years ago a big push was done for
that and it just didn't catch. I remember stories
of them even passing out the words at Yale practice
and people crumpling it up and throwing it back on
the field. One thing that I've learned is that if
the student body doesn't want it, then you're not
going to do it. You're not going to do it. That's
true. That's true.
Let's see. Since you were in the Corps, you'd seen
your boots. I wasn't in the Corps. Yeah, and you
don't yet have a senior ring. I get that. I order
this after the semester. How do you think you're
going to feel when you put it on? I'm gonna feel
good. I'm gonna feel real good. It's gonna be like a
job well done. And is it a special thing you think?
Yeah. I'm never gonna take it off. What creates
Aggie spirit? Why is there the pride in this
institution?
It's a hard question to put words on.
Are there some events that contribute to it? Of
course, there's always events. I mean, with any
culture that you have, there's going to be the
rituals that you have that add to the culture, such
as football games, such as yell practice, muster,
silver taps, stuff like that, fish camp, yell
leaders, reveille, stuff like that. The Corps of
Cadets, I think, is a big thing that adds to that.
The fact that we have something like that to do.
A willingness to be part of it is what really does.
Because anybody can come in here and you can shove
the traditions down someone's throat, but if they
don't want to be a part of them, then they're not
going to mean anything. But the great thing about
A&M is you get all these people that are willing to
do it. Is A&M inclusive of people? Mm-hmm. if that
person is willing, if that person is willing, if
that person is willing to come in and be like, I'm
not going to feel stupid when I do this. I will do
this because the people before me did it. See, I
believe that many outsiders think A&M is not
inclusive. Yeah. I believe it's very inclusive. I
believe it's very inclusive. In the interviews
I've done with people back in the 30s and 40s, it
didn't matter where you came from, what your daddy
did. If you were a part of the group, And if you would
join and do your part, well done. Like y'all don't
give people nicknames. Everybody then had a
nickname. And the nickname to an outsider seemed
like a put down. But it wasn't. It was an
identifier. Faculty all had nicknames. Like
you've never heard of Cube Root Jackson or Square
Root Jackson or Cube Root Kent. they taught two
very, very key math courses that all engineers had
to take. And the myth was that the courses were so
hard that only the square root of the number of
students taking the course would pass it. I can
imagine. Then there was another guy, Dr. Dan, the
grade point man, Dan Russell, over in rural
sociology. And if you needed some grade points,
you took one. You'd go there. And you knew it, and he
knew it. He knew why you were there. So you think it
is inclusive.
Let's see, you've not been through a commencement
yet, so that question doesn't... doesn't fit. At
this point, what are you most proud about being a
part of A&M?
The fact that people are willing to do so much for
this institution with no thank yous. I think the
fact that we've got students and faculty that do
stuff for A&M and not even all of them are Aggies. I
mean, some of them aren't even Aggies.
We have a very giving, giving culture. Are there
some faculty members that have touched you? Some.
Importantly? Some. Who? Arnold Kramer is one of
them. Okay. Ben Welch is another. Rusty Thompson
is one. Patricia Weiner is another one.
W-E-H-N-E-R? Like the building. And what does she
do? She is administrative helper for the
Yalmeters Memorial Student Center. And the
grades that you've earned here, do you think that
in general you got what you deserve? Mm-hmm.
Sometimes. Other times, I didn't have to go to
class and I could get the A, so. That's right.
Sometimes. I mean, it's just, it's very dependent
on the class. I mean, there, there are obviously
those teachers that are just like being the grade
point man. There's, there are, there are still
those here. If you were a consultant to A&M's
leaders today, we brought you in to advise. What
advice would you give them about how to guide A&M
toward even greater Don't be hostile to the
critic.
I guess. Don't be hostile to the critic. Any other?
Say
thank you. Okay. Individual thank yous. Don't
forget to do that. See, Jack Williams was superb.
You got a personal note, handwritten. It only had
three lines to it, but it was to you. That's great.
Oh, of course you did. Of course you did. What about
A&M's size? I want it bigger. Bigger? Mm-hmm. Can
it remain personal? Mm-hmm. How would you select
the students to be admitted?
That's tough. I don't like the 10% rule. I don't
like it. All right, what would you have as your
guidelines? A lot of the same stuff that we have
now, except it wouldn't be automatic for someone
who's in the top 10%. Would you give? All right, I'm
reading in.
class rank plus ACTSAT. Sure. Class rank with a
combination of grades but a combination of other
stuff too. I think the great things that make A&M is
that we don't just get students. We don't just get
academics. We get people that are involved in
other stuff. That's what makes A&M strong because
someone can come through with their 2.7 which is a
very Even grade point average, I mean, that's the
average, but do amazing things on this campus.
There are people that come through with 4.0 that
never do anything except take grades, which is
good. You need both. And so that's why I think I
would just do away with the 10 percent rule. In my
opinion, that would mean a lot more work for the
admissions people. Well, and see, that's a state
law, so. Oh, I know. But maybe it's going to be
modified this year. All right, I've got only two
other questions. What have we not talked about
that we should have included? What
have you thought of that, if anything?